Continue working on your scene or open the file named CP-03_rails.max provided to you.
With the road marks in place, you now use a railing tool to create guard rails separating traffic lanes from sidewalks.
Make sure Civil View is running and then choose Civil View > Civil View > Rail Object Style Editor.
The Rail Object Style Editor bears some resemblance to the Road Markings Style Editor, in both UI and workflow.
You first add a new element, and you choose a shape for it.
Again, choose the centerline alignment as you did before.
Click Apply to see the end results. A default guardrail is created in the middle of the road.
There are some general parameters you can adjust such as global widths and offsetting.
However, you also need to know that a rail object is made of three components: Posts, Braces and the Rails themselves.
These components have their own tabs and can be adjusted individually.
For example, you can change the dimensions or the gaps of the posts or even disable them altogether.
Similarly, you can edit braces,
Or the rails themselves, by setting them to one side or the other,
or by choosing a different look or even material.
Ultimately, you can change the look of a rail system to achieve interesting results that range from guardrails to train tracks.
For example, click the open button and answer No to the save prompt.
From the Private Resource Kit, choose railway-wood.ros and open it.
Choose the centerline alignment as a reference shape once again and click Apply.
As you can see, this style is based on posts and rails only and parameter adjustments give it the look of a railway track.
Click the Start New Style icon again without saving any changes.
Create a New Element one more time based on the centerline alignment.
Click the Apply button to go back to the original default guardrail.
This one actually works rather well for our needs here, except that it's in the wrong place.
Set its Horizontal Offset to about 10m to bring it closer to the sidewalk. Click Apply to see the results.
You can probably make it a bit narrower.
The left and right Width values are locked by default, but you can unlock them if you need to.
Set them to 0.3m and 0.2m respectively and then hit Apply to see the changes in the viewport.
You still need another guardrail on the other side.
Much like you did with road marks, you can make a copy of an element and adjust its offset.
Also as before, if you need to have two or more elements based on the same reference shape, you need to activate Multiple mode.
Once that's done, you can easily copy and paste an existing element.
To place it on the other side, you can invert its offset value.
You would also need to invert its Left and Right Widths values otherwise the wider section will extend towards the sidewalk.
Instead, simply click the Mirror button. This swaps the left and right width values and also inverts the offset.
Click Apply to view the results.
Save your new style to the Private Resource Kit.
Name it: mySimpleRail.ros
Exit the dialog.
Note that the rail objects are part of the alignment hierarchy,
as was the case with the road markings.
This means that transforming the parent spline would affect all children objects contained in the hierarchy.
Save your file. In the next movie, you learn about Swept Objects.